=head1 NAME

krb5-sync - Synchronize passwords and status with AD or AFS kaserver

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<krb5-sync> [B<-d> | B<-e>] [B<-p> I<password>] I<user>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<krb5-sync> provides a command-line interface to the same functions
provided by the password and status synchronization plugin.  It can push a
new password to Active Directory (actually, to any password store that
supports the Kerberos set-password protocol) or to an AFS kaserver, or
activate or deactivate an account in Active Directory.

To synchronize passwords, provide the B<-p> option and specify the
password.  Note that the password is given on the command line and must be
quoted if it contains special characters, and the password will be exposed
to any other users on the system where this command is run.  This is
useful primarily for testing and should not be used with production
passwords.  Synchronization to both Active Directory and to an AFS
kaserver will be attempted based on the configuration in F<krb5.conf> (see
below).

To enable or disable an account, provide the B<-e> or B<-d> option
respectively.  These options can also be provided in conjunction with the
B<-p> option to take both actions at once.

In either case, I<user> should be the principal name for which these
actions should be taken.  I<user> may be either unqualified or in the
local realm; either way, the Active Directory and AFS kaserver realms in
which to make changes will be taken from the F<krb5.conf> configuration.

The configuration block in F<krb5.conf> should look something like this:

    krb5-sync = {
        afs_srvtab      = /etc/krb5kdc/afs-srvtab
        afs_principal   = service.sync
        afs_realm       = AFS.EXAMPLE.COM

        ad_keytab       = /etc/krb5kdc/ad-keytab
        ad_principal    = service/sync@WINDOWS.EXAMPLE.COM
        ad_realm        = WINDOWS.EXAMPLE.COM
        ad_admin_server = dc1.windows.example.com
    }

The afs_* configuration is only required if you want to synchronize
passwords to an AFS kaserver.  Similarly, the ad_* configuration is only
required if you want to synchronize passwords or account status to Active
Directory.  If the configuration required for an action is not given, that
action will not be performed but will apparently succeed from the
perspective of the B<krb5-sync> utility.  Therefore, if this utility
reports success but no change is happening, double-check the configuration
to ensure that all required options are present.

The *_srvtab or *_keytab option specifies the location of a srvtab or
keytab for authenticating to the other realm, the *_principal options
specify the principal to authenticate as (using the key in the srvtab or
keytab), and the *_realm options specify the foreign realm.
ad_admin_server is the host to contact via LDAP to push account status
changes.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-d>

Disable the specified user in Active Directory.  Requires that all of the
ad_* options be set in F<krb5.conf>.  This option may not be specified at
the same time as B<-e>.

=item B<-e>

Enable the specified user in Active Directory.  Requires that all of the
ad_* options be set in F<krb5.conf>.  This option may not be specified at
the same time as B<-e>.

=item B<-p> I<password>

Change the user's password to I<password>.  This will be done in either or
both the Active Directory and the AFS kaserver, depending on what
configuration is set in F<krb5.conf>.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Disable the account "jdoe" in Active Directory (using the AD configuration
found in F<krb5.conf>):

    krb5-sync -d jdoe

Change the password of the account "testuser" in both Active Directory and
the AFS kaserver (based on the F<krb5.conf> configuration) to "changeme":

    krb5-sync -p changeme testuser@EXAMPLE.COM

The same, except also enable the account in Active Directory:

    krb5-sync -e -p changeme testuser

Note that the realm for the user given on the command line is optional and
ignored.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The current version of this program is available from its web page at
L<http://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/krb5-sync/>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>

=cut
